as you might know the ketogenic diet is
a very popular topic here at the truth
about cancer it's a great diet to fight
inflammation in your body if done
correctly dr. Thomas Seyfried who's a
specialist on this topic talks more in
this short video about how fasting and -
the keto diet may help fight cancer take
out your pencils and notebooks and
listen carefully you'll want to take
notes so we have here normally
epithelial cells now these cells can get
damaged from any one of the oncogenic
paradox issues they start to proliferate
they start to increase in the
microenvironment cells of our immune
system now come in because they see this
as a wound
they wound healing capabilities the
macrophages throw out growth factors and
cytokines to put the wound out but in so
doing it makes these blue cells grow
even faster so we wear our own bodies
have a counteract of what we're fighting
against each other they're doing they're
doing an inappropriate thing but they're
programmed to do that these cells will
actually fuse with some of the cells to
help put out the fire right these
macrophages and in so doing they dilute
their normal mitochondria in the
cytoplasm
now these macrophages now become
corrupted these are the most powerful
cells in our body they evolved to kill
bacteria and keep us healthy from the
environment this is like the police
department and the militia being
corrupted in your own in your own
society bad problem rogue macrophages
they're programmed to enter and exit the
circulatory system they're programmed to
shut down immune responses these are a
tough sell to kill they live in hypoxic
environments making them very difficult
to kill and they love glutamine they
love glutamine so you have to know that
so if most cancer cells obtain energy
through fermentation what can we do one
strategy is try to reduce fermentable
fuels and give them non fermentable
fuels so what we do is we use calorie
restricted ketogenic diets therapeutic
fasting and this kind of thing that
we've heard about today so here's a
number of things about calorie
restriction the important thing here is
that calorie restriction and restrictive
ketogenic House levels the fermentable
fuel and elevate ketone bodies a non
fermentable fuel so what we're trying to
do is just simply take away the driving
fuel that makes the beast go and giving
it
that it can't use they and also this
enhances the mitochondria in normal
mitochondria it starts to make them
healthier but when I use I'm going to
show you calorie restriction in the
mouse but see are in the mouse equates
water only therapeutic fasting and we
heard that from dr. group this morning
which was very very interesting so when
I talk about calorie restriction in mice
if you want to get the same effect you
have to stop eating and just drink water
alright nope we use ketogenic diet so
this is a big mystery Feliway this diet
that diet delay you know we've got kids
diet this diet you know it's a very low
carb diet but it the carbs the proteins
and the fats all play a very important
role in ketogenic that's not all the
same many different forms of ketogenic
diets important important thing don't
eat too much of this if you too much of
get instant insensitivity make the damn
tumor grow faster
you have to food as medicine if you
don't know how to use the medicine you
could harm yourself you need people that
know how to do this stuff okay the goal
here is if you want to manage it which
at least the first step in trying to
manage the disease is we've got to lower
the blood sugar and we got to elevate
the non fermentable ketones and then we
can slow this guy down I'm not saying we
cure him or we resolve I just say we
slow it down because we can slow it down
we can make him vulnerable to other
forms of attack and I'll show you about
that so this was one of the first
reports that got our attention by Linda
and Emily at Case Western Reserve
she took her two little girls hopeless
cases brutalized brutalized by the
system surgery radiation chemo the poor
little kids lost their so she put them
on this ketogenic diet and was able to
keep one kid alive for two more years
they were they were supposed to be dead
very quickly read the original paper and
one one other kid was lost to follow up
this is the only study done in pediatric
oncology that I know about where they
actually got tremendous results they
don't do it that we do it in epilepsy
all the time treating kid little kids
with ketogenic diets but not in
pediatric oncology
it's a tragedy in my in my in my point
now because of Linda's paper we got very
excited so we decided to say how are we
going to be able to do this so we just
take these mice put a glioblastoma or
astrocytoma cells into their brain and
then we wait a couple of days and then
we gave them calorie restriction and I
said 40% calorie restriction is like
water only therapeutic fasting and you
can see this large tumor on the guy this
is standard diet huh unrestricted which
is a high carbohydrate diet high carbs
and this is a same diet just restricted
40 to 40 percent and we get anywhere 65
to 85 percent reduction in the size of
the tumor and what's going square here
is a mouse under a different dietary
condition so as glucose goes down
ketones go up this is an evolutionarily
conserved ab adaptation to what happens
when we stop eating ketones go up
because the brain has to have an energy
taken away the glucose as glucose goes
down the size of the tumor goes down
this was our work in the mouse it has
since been replicated in human
glioblastoma Brett a human breast cancer
colon cancer all these different cancers
the higher your sugar the faster the
tumor grows the lower the sugar the
slower the tumor grows why is that so
hard for anyone to understand why an
oncology clinics you give cake and ice
cream to the case it's clear and it's
been replicated over and over again well
that's great information about the
ketogenic diet yeah that you know the
ketogenic diet is it's not a fad it's
it's a bait it's a diet that's based on
science and I think dr. Thomas Seyfried
enlightened us a little bit about that
science it goes way back you know the
the original ketogenic diet you might
have heard about what's called the
Atkins diet but it's not the keto diet
because the keto diet is really focused
on high quality fats and moderate
proteins but you heard all of that all
of that from dr. C free just now it's a
great explanation it is a scientifically
formulated diet and we know the research
shows that it can help to remove the
fuel from cancer cells which feed on
what honey sugar sugar cancer feeds on
sugar that was a test
attach the test 100% for you sugar and
so yeah great information and so if you
if you remove the fuel from from cancer
cells they don't do very well so thank
you dr. Seyfried again yes thank you
thank you out there for watching until
next time god bless